As a bioinformatics student, my main goal with regards to my course is to be able to develop a strong skill set for problem solving. In the field of bioinformatics, innovative and pioneering software is heavily in demand in order to decipher, store and apply biological data. For example, bioinformaticians build computer programs involved in gene sequencing and protein folding. When working with a team of biologists, I hope to be able to provide the technological solutions needed to automate and simplify their work, and revamp the field of biology through digital technology.   

This design thinking project has further solidified my interest and motivated me to further pursue my dreams. The advent of Big Data increases the job prospects of bioinformaticians year by year, and more skilled bioinformaticians with the ability to work together as a team, communicate and solve problems are needed in the field. This design thinking project has undoubtedly taught me many of the skills that will give me an edge in the field. By continuing to practise these skills, I hope to be able to create new breakthroughs in the field of bioinformatics.   

Even though I picked up many skills throughout this design thinking project, some need to be continually improved and necessary steps need to be taken to improve my standing in the industry. The actions I must take include continuously expanding my knowledge of the field, being more creative and being more skillful in analysis. I believe that these qualities can be improved upon by constant practice, and will greatly improve my value in the industry.
